=pod

=head1 NAME

userd - local user management daemon.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<userd> [B<-vhF>] B<-s> F<socket>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<userd> is a daemon that listens on a UNIX socket, providing
facilities to manage CLIP user accounts. The supported operations are
listing the accounts present on the system, adding, deleting, locking,
and unlocking an account. Another useful operation is checking how
much space is still available for new accounts.

=over 12

=item I<account types>

Each account is qualified by a name, a type, and partitions.

There are four types of accounts in a CLIP system: administrator,
auditor, RM jails administrator, and user.

The partition size is fixed for all accounts except for user
accounts. It is therefore needed to specify the size of the disk space
allocated to them, in RM_H and RM_B jails.


=head1 OPTIONS

B<userd> supports the following options :

=over 12

=item B<-s> F<socket> [Mandatory]

Bind the socket on path F<socket>

=item B<-F>

Run the daemon in foreground, with logging messages written to the standard output. 
By default, the daemon detaches from its controlling terminal at startup, and logs
through the syslog I<LOG_DAEMON> facility.

=item B<-v>

Be more verbose in logging. This option can be passed several times for additional 
effect, although at this point B<-vv> is as far as it goes in terms of verbosity.

=item B<-h>

Display a short help summary, and exit immediately.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR 

Olivier Levillain <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

(Thanks to Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>> for the
daemon / library architecture)


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<userclt(8)|userclt>
 
=cut
