=pod

=head1 NAME

userclt - command line interface to the user management daemon userd

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<userclt> B<-S> F<sock> B<-L>

=item B<userclt> B<-S> F<sock> B<-F>

=item B<userclt> B<-S> F<sock> B<-a> B<-n> I<name> B<-t> I<type> [B<-s> I<size> [B<-b> I<size>]] 

=item B<userclt> B<-S> F<sock> B<-d> B<-n> I<name>

=item B<userclt> B<-S> F<sock> B<-l> B<-n> I<name> 

=item B<userclt> B<-S> F<sock> B<-u> B<-n> I<name>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<userclt> is a dedicated client for communicating with the B<cryptd>
daemon. It allows for all the user management operations provided by
B<cryptd>: listing, adding, deleting, locking and unlocking accounts.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<userclt> supports the following options :

=over 12

=item B<-S> F<sock> [Mandatory]

Connect to the F<sock> (path) socket to communicate with B<cryptd>.

=item B<-L> 

List the accounts present on the system.

=item B<-F> 

Give the free disk space available for new accounts.

=item B<-a>

Add a new account.

=item B<-d>

Delete an existing account.

=item B<-l>

Lock an existing account.

=item B<-u>

Unlock an existing account.

=item B<-n> I<name>

Use I<name> to identify the account to act upon, in case of operations
on an existing account. In case of the add operation, specify the name
of the new account.

=item B<-t> I<type>

Specify the type of the new account, which can be B<admin>, B<audit>,
B<rmadmin> or B<user>.

=item B<-s> I<size>

Use total size for the new account. This option is only needed when
creating a new user account.

=item B<-b> I<size>

Among the size given by the B<-s> option, reserve I<size> for the RM_B
partition. This option is only needed when creating a new user
account. The default will be to split the total size in two partitions
of the same size, one for RM_B and one for RM_H.

=item B<-v>

Be more verbose in logging. This option can be passed several times for additional 
effect, although at this point B<-vv> is as far as it goes in terms of verbosity.

=item B<-h>

Display a short help summary, and exit immediately.

=back 

=head1 AUTHOR 

Olivier Levillain <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

(Thanks to Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>> for the
daemon / library architecture)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<userd(8)|userd>
 
=cut
